---
title: Home
---

# Web Server Kit

Some people learn best by doing, this is a site for those
people. This site is intended for two groups of people, those who have
been through an language's introductory tutorial and are looking for
project to tackle next, and those who want a better understanding of
how the web works. We'll walk through the process of discovering how
HTTP works and what technologies underpin modern websites.

This guide is language agnostic, we'll talk about protocols and
specifications instead of libraries. This means you'll need to do a
significant amount of research outside of this guide to complete the
projects. This is intentional. If you are trying to learn a new
language this is a great way to become familiar with the docs of that
language. The decision of what libraries above and beyond the standard
lib of the language will be up to you, remember the point is both to
learn about the language as well as web sites. You could easily `gem
install rails` and get on with your life, but that's not the point of
this guide.

The tools used in this guide will be linux specific, you can follow
along on other operating systems by you may need to make some slight
adjustments to the command arguments. Think of this as another
learning opportunity :)

I have a few hints for this project. It's not a school assignment,
it's not a contract for an employer, and it's not a work project, you
are welcome to complete each segment in as much detail as you would
like. No one is going to blame you if you don't use the perfect
solution to everything. You don't even have to write unit tests if you
don't want to! (And I would recommend you don't if this is your first
attempt with a new language, get comfortable with the semantics of the
language then come back and try again with different practices).

There are plenty of very good open source web servers, you should use
one of those for production projects. Standing on that statement:

I HEREBY GIVE YOU PERMISSION TO MAKE MISTAKES, explore, make questionable design
choices, delete code, refactor everything, shave any yaks you see,
whatever you want to do with your project is okay. Please, this is how we learn!

In each section I'll try to include some googleable words to help you
in the right direction if you get stuck. A lot of these will be of the
format "{ your language } some term", so I'll use those brackets to
signify that the search should be language specific.
